DIAGNOSIS: Squamous cell carcinoma of oral tongue.
REFERRING DOCTOR: [PERSON]
ID: [PERSON] is a [AGE] patient, was seen today for T4a N3b M0 well differentiated squamous cell carcinoma
of the larynx. for consideration of adjuvant therapy
History of present illness: the patient presented with progressive dysphagia and dysphonia, found to have a transglottic mass, biopsy
on the [DATE] revealed SCC
The patient underwent on the 14 of December total laryngectomy with bilateral lymphnodal dissection.
Pathology revealed poorly diff SCC, transglottic, invasion of the thyroid cartilage, strap muscle and perilaryngeal soft tissue, bilateral
level 2 and 3 lymphnodal involvement 9 out of 45 with ECE, LVI present, margins close at 2 mm/
Patient recovered well from surgery
Preop MRI revealed transglottic neoplasm, which is stable in size in comparison with previous CT.
The lesion involves the right true and false cord, anterior commissure and the contralateral true and false cord as described previously.
There is invasion of the thyroid cartilage and anterior displacement of the strap muscles. There is a small component of subglottic
extension.
Superiorly the lesion reaches the petiole of the epiglottis. The right paralaryngeal fat is invaded. There is secondary significant
narrowing of the airway.
Redemonstration of pathologic right level 2A and level 3 lymph nodes with internal necrosis. There are also suspicious left level 2 and
level 3 lymph nodes as was described on the CT scan.
No other significant change or abnormality identified.
CT chest is negative
Review of systems unremarkable otherwise
Medications: salbutamol, flovent, temisartan, meoprololrocaltrol, synthroid, finasteride, atorvastatin
Past medical history: hypertension, CAD post angioplasty
Social history: heavy smoker, social drinker
Examination: Performance Status: 90%
Neck is clear, stoma is reovered well, oral cavity and oropharynx are normal, patient edentulous.
Naso-pharyngo-laryngoscopy was normal.
In summary, [PERSON] is a [AGE] patient with T4a N3b M0 poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma of
the larynx.
Patient will be treated with post-operative chemoradiotherapy.. Both acute and long term side-effects were explained to the patient and
accompanying [CHILDREN].
He will be seen next in planning.
Thank you for the courtesy of the consultation.
[PERSON]