DIAGNOSIS: Squamous cell carcinoma of unknown primary of the head and neck
ID: [PERSON] is a [AGE] lady from Chateauguay.
REASON FOR CONSULT: The patient was referred to us for consideration of further management for newly diagnosed
squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck with unknown primary.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Remote cholecystectomy at the age of 17, nasal bridge repair, right forearm fracture
followed by internal fixation, arthritis and disk.
ALLERGIES: Codeine.
MEDICATION: Naproxen.
HABITS: The patient smokes half a pack per day for the past 40 years. She drinks alcohol on an occasional basis.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient used to work at the bank. The patient is divorced, and she has [CHILDREN].
FAMILY HISTORY: The patient's mother was diagnosed with breast cancer at the age of 59, and the patient's sister had
cervical cancer.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient reported that three years ago she noticed a right neck lump, for which
she sought medical attention. She was seen by her family physician who referred her to the ENT Clinic following an exam
as well as scan. She was told that it was likely to be a fat lump, and the patient was started on antibiotics by her family
physician, and the lump decreased in size a bit. However, over the past three months, the patient noticed this lump
started to increase in size. She sought medical attention, and she was referred to [PERSON] who started investigation.
FNAC from the right neck mass revealed squamous cell carcinoma, and the patient underwent CT scan of the head and
neck on [DATE] which revealed a 4 x 4.5 x 3.2-cm large lymph node at the right jugulodigastric area and other
smaller nodes were noted in the same area. There were no significant large lymph nodes in the contralateral area,
however, there was a 9-mm node documented in the right supraclavicular area and another few subcentimetric lymph
nodes at level 3 and 4. CT examination of the larynx, nasopharynx and the thyroid and the lung was documented to be
normal. The patient underwent a PET scan, which documented the lymph node at the right jugulodigastric area
measuring 4.3 x 3.8 cm with high SUV uptake of 10.5, and another smaller node of 12 mm with high SUV of 6.3 and a few
other subcentimetric lymph nodes with SUV ranging from 2.7 to 3.7, all on the right side. No metastatic disease was seen
on the PET scan.
Following the PET scan and the CT scan, the patient underwent fine-needle aspirate, which documented the squamous
cell carcinoma from the right neck mass.
The patient denies any weight loss, dysphagia or any change of the voice. No change in the pattern of coughing and no
sign of aspiration, however, over the past few weeks the patient is experiencing more anxiety at night to the point where it
is affecting her sleep and other activities.
The patient was referred to us for consideration of further management.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: The patient looks in no distress. KPS 100. Head and neck examination revealed about a 5
x 4-cm mobile neck mass at the right jugulodigastric area. The mass itself is firm but it is mobile, not attached to the skin.
There is a smaller mass, just beneath it, about 1.5 cm. Examination of the contralateral neck did not reveal any palpable
mass. Examination of the oropharynx revealed normal mucosa with no visible or palpable lesions. The patient is wearing
dentures.
Flexible endoscopic examination was unremarkable.
Cardiovascular and pulmonary auscultation was unremarkable.
In summary, [PERSON] is a [AGE] lady with a newly diagnosed squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck
with an unknown primary. At this point, based on the CT scan and PET scan, staged as Tx, N2b, [PERSON].
CONSULTATION REQUESTED: We have requested Medical Oncology consultation as well as ENT, Psychology,
Nutrition. We requested a GI consult for a PEG tube.
IMPRESSION AND PLAN: [PERSON] is a [AGE] lady with a newly diagnosed squamous cell carcinoma of the
head and neck with unknown primary. She underwent a PET scan as well as a CT scan of the head and neck, which did
not show any primary site. We have discussed with the patient and her family the need to explore the primary site of the
disease and that is usually done with a PET scan, which she already had, as well as panendoscopy. For that, we
requested a consultation with the Head and Neck surgeon to arrange for that. If the primary site is identified, the
treatment will be dictated based on that. Otherwise, the patient will receive concurrent chemoradiation therapy to the
bilateral neck as the potential site of the primary. Likely the patient will receive 30 fractions of radiation with concurrent
chemotherapy once a week. The rationale of the treatment as well as the expected side effects, acute and chronic side
effects, were explained to the patient and her family, who agreed to the proposed treatment plan. The patient will be
called shortly for planning CT scan for preparation of the radiation.
Thank you for the courtesy of this referral.
A. Alsuhaibani,[PERSON][PERSON]
AA/Transmed
DD: [DATE]
DT: [DATE]