DIAGNOSIS: Maxillary sinus squamous cell carcinoma
[PERSON] is a [AGE] gentleman referred to our department for consideration of adjuvant radiation status post
surgical resection of a locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the right maxillary sinus.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient had undergone recently a dental extraction at [JOB] following which
he noticed erythema and swelling of the right face and also bleeding through the mouth, for which he presented at the
Emergency and on investigation, a CT was done on [DATE] revealing an aggressive process involving the right
entire hemimaxilla extending to the alveolar ridge, hard palate, and maxillary sinus wall, transgressing the floor of the orbit
and extending into the right inferior periorbital tissue, involving the pterygopalatine fossa, highly suggestive of a
malignancy. An MRI done on [DATE] confirms those findings. A biopsy done on [DATE] showed high-grade
carcinoma in the submucosal. Further investigation included a chest x-ray, which was unremarkable, equally a PET scan,
which revealed a destructive process in the right hemimaxilla involving the alveolar ridge, hard palate and maxillary sinus
wall, possibly involvement of the right node of Rouviere. Also noted is a suspicious focal hypermetabolism seen in the
prostate.
The patient then underwent on [DATE] a right maxillectomy with palatectomy and a fibular free flap, for which the
pathology revealed non-keratinizing squamous cell carcinoma, poorly differentiated, measuring 4.5 x 3.5 cm with positive
margins at the level of the posterior skeletal muscle and anterior periosseous tissue. Lymphovascular invasion is seen,
p16 is negative. One lymph node removed ipsilaterally during the preparation for the flap was positive for malignancy with
a deposit of 1.2 cm, but no extracapsular extension.
The patient is recovering well from his surgery. He denies any symptoms at the moment. Specifically, no audiology or
visual symptoms.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Diabetes mellitus type 2, high blood pressure, hypercholesterolemia, benign prostate
hyperplasia.
MEDICATION: Unfortunately, the patient does not have his list of medication today, but from the chart we can assess
that the patient is taking finasteride, amlodipine, atorvastatin, metformin. No history of allergies to medications.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: An elderly gentleman in no acute distress. Performance status is evaluated at 90. The
maxillectomy scar is well healed. The patient is edentulous on the side of the surgery. Oral cavity and oropharynx are
normal. Neck is clear without lymphadenopathy palpated. Cranial nerve examination is unremarkable.
In conclusion, this is a [AGE] gentleman status post surgical resection of a stage T3, N1 poorly differentiated
squamous cell carcinoma of the right maxillary sinus. We do recommend adjuvant radiation to the surgical bed, ipsilateral
neck and contralateral level 2. This will be combined with weekly chemotherapy as a radiosensitizer. Treatment rationale
and side effects were fully explained to the patient, and he agrees to receive the treatment.
[PERSON]
KS/Transmed
DD:[DATE]
DT:[DATE]