DIAGNOSIS:
This lady is referred to our department for consideration of management with a diagnosis of a left buccal mucosa minor
salivary gland tumor.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Nil significant except for hypothyroidism and hypercholesterolemia.
MEDICATION: Synthroid, Lipitor. Allergies to iodine contrast.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient does not smoke or drink.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient noticed over the last year a painless mass at the upper level of the left
cheek that measures about 1 to 2 cm in diameter. No evidence of progression over time. Because of this mass, the
patient consulted [JOB], and was then referred to [PERSON]. A needle biopsy done on [DATE] revealed
hypercellular salivary gland tumor favoring pleomorphic adenoma, but cannot rule out low-grade carcinoma. The patient
underwent an excisional resection on [DATE] with the pathology revealing salivary gland adenocarcinoma, low-
grade, positive for lymphovascular invasion, no perineural invasion seen. The tumor was removed in a fragmented
fashion, with the fragments measuring about 1.5 cm. It is of note that the patient has undergone before surgery an MRI of
the head and neck region revealing a 1.4 x 1.6-cm enhancing lesion in the left buccal space in close proximity to the left
maxillary alveolar bone, but no evidence of bony invasion. Also of note is an abnormal enhancement along the course of
the fifth nerve (V3) of unknown etiology.
The patient recovered well from surgery. She does not have any complaints. On review of systems, mentions about a
20-pound weight loss of unknown etiology. The patient denies any GI or GU symptomatology.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: A healthy lady in no acute distress. Performance status is evaluated at 100. Neck is clear
with no lymphadenopathy palpated. Oral cavity and oropharynx are normal on inspection. On palpation, of note is a
residual 1-cm mass on the upper aspect of the left buccal mucosa extending into the gingivobuccal sulcus, seems to be
tethered to the maxillary bone. This is suspicious of residual disease, although surgical scarring cannot be ruled out.
After a discussion with [PERSON], we do recommend a post-op MRI to investigate any residual disease. Depending on the
results of the MRI, we will discuss either an adjuvant course of external beam radiotherapy or consider surgical re-
resection if feasible. The patient will be assessed with her MRI.
[PERSON]
KS/Transmed
DD:[DATE]
DT:[DATE]