DIAGNOSIS: HYPOPHARYNGEAL CA.
[PERSON] is an [AGE] gentleman referred for consideration of management with a diagnosis of locally
advanced hypopharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient had recently a transanal resection of localized rectal cancer without any
adjuvant therapy. As part of his staging he has undergone a PET scan which revealed increased uptake at the level of the
hypopharynx, mainly on the left piriform sinus extending crossing midline with left neck lymphadenopathy covering levels
2, 3 and 5. Because of this finding, the patient was referred to Head and Neck Surgery where on a dedicated CT scan of
the head and neck done on the [DATE] he was found to have a thickening of the left piriform sinus measuring 1.7 cm
crossing midline with multiple left lymphadenopathy involving levels 3 and 4, the largest one measuring 2.2 cm. A biopsy
of the lymph node on the left neck confirms squamous cell carcinoma P16 negative. The patient is referred to us for
consideration of management. On review of systems the patient mentions a mild dysphagia lasting over the last year or so
and also mentions feeling a painless mass in the left neck for the last few months but no other symptomatology. He does
mention weight loss but this is mostly related to his recent surgery.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Rectal cancer as described above, liver cirrhosis, hypercholesterolemia, high blood
pressure, also coronary artery disease.
MEDICATIONS: Nitro pump, Aspirin, atorvastatin, Coversyl, bisoprolol, Aldactone, furosemide. No allergies to
medications.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient quit smoking four years ago, also quit drinking recently.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Elderly gentleman in no acute distress. Performance status evaluated at 90%. On neck
examination, of note there are multiple lymph nodes involving the left levels 3 and 4 noted and also one lymph node
measuring 1 x 1 cm in the supraclavicular region. Oral cavity reveals edentulous patient without any suspicious lesion
seen. Flexible nasopharyngolaryngoscopy reveals submucosal fullness and thickening of the post cricoid space with
fullness of the left piriformis sinus and pooling of secretions. Vocal cord seems mobile.
CONCLUSION: In conclusion, this is a gentleman with a hypopharyngeal cancer stage T2, N2b, squamous cell
carcinoma. We have requested an MRI to complete the staging and assess the full extent of his tumor in relation to the
esophagus and the cricoid cartilage. His case will be discussed at Tumor Board for consideration of options of treatment.
The patient most probably will opt for concomitant chemoradiation and preparation for this treatment will be undertaken.
[PERSON]
KS/Transmed
DD: [DATE]
DT: [DATE]