Rapport de Pathologie Final Pathology Report
Renseignements Cliniques-Clinical History
Right transglottic Ca T4aN2cM0 for total laryngectomy + bilateral neck dissection + total thyroidectomy
- 1) Larynx - Biobank sent fresh @ 14:06 2) Left paratracheal area, parathyroid gland vs node ->
frozen @ 13:47 3) Left 2A, fresh (Biobank) 4) Left 2B, fresh (Biobank) 5) Left 3+4, fresh (Biobank) 6)
Right neck 2A, fresh (Biobank) 7) Right neck level 2B, fresh (Biobank) 8) Right neck 3, fresh
(Biobank) 9) Right neck level 4, fresh (Biobank) 10) Right int, jugular vein (formalin)
Consultation Peroperatoire-Intraoperative Consultation
IOC without F.S. - Larynx:
- Tumor identified
- Submitted for Biobank ([PERSON])
Left paratracheal area (F.S.):
- Parathyroid tissue ([PERSON]) (Consult: [PERSON])
Diagnostic Anatomique-Anatomical Diagnosis
SYNOPTIC REPORT: LARYNX
Specimen site: larynx, thyroid, bilateral neck lymph nodes, levels 2A, 2B, 3 and 4
Procedure: total laryngectomy, total thyroidectomy, bilateral neck dissection, levels 2A, 2B, 3 and 4
Primary Tumor:
Tumor Laterality: bilateral
Tumor Site: supraglottic larynx, glottis, subglottic larynx
Tumor Size: 3.4 x 2.8 x 1.9 cm
Extent of tumor: involves thyroid cartilage, strap muscle and perilaryngeal soft tissue
Histologic Type: squamous cell carcinoma
Histologic Grade: moderately to poorly differentiated
Margins: margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma, distance from closest mucosal margin: 0.2 cm
(right epiglottic fold), distance from closest deep margin: 0.3 cm
Lymph-Vascular Invasion: present
Perineural Invasion: not identified

Lymph Nodes:
total number of lymph nodes examined: 45
total number of lymph nodes involved: 9
extranodal extension: present in several lymph nodes
size of the largest metastatic focus in the lymph node: 1.9 cm
Lymph Nodes by Specific Sites:
specimen 1: Larynx: no lymph node identified
specimen 2: Left paratracheal area, parathyroid gland vs node: parathyroid tissue, no lymph node
identified
specimen 3: left level 2A, number examined: 8 number involved: 2
specimen 4: left level 2B, number examined: 3 number involved: 0
specimen 5: left level 3 and 4, number examined: 9 number involved: 2
specimen 6: right level 2A, number examined: 6 number involved: 3
specimen 7: right level 2B, number examined: 3 number involved: 0
specimen 8: right level 3, number examined: 7 number involved: 2
specimen 9: right level 4, number examined: 9 number involved: 0
specimen 10: right int jugular vein: jugular vein with focal involvement by squamous cell carcinoma.
Pathologic Staging (pTNM):
Primary Tumor (pT):pT4a: Moderately advanced local disease. Tumor invades through the outer cortex
of the thyroid cartilage and/or invades tissues beyond the larynx (eg, trachea, cricoid cartilage, soft
tissues of neck including deep extrinsic muscle of the tongue, strap muscles, thyroid, or esophagus)
Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pN3b: Metastasis in a single ipsilateral node, larger than 3 cm in greatest
dimension and ENE(+); or multiple ipsilateral, contralateral, or bilateral lymph nodes and any with
ENE(+); or a single contralateral node of any size and ENE(+)
Examen Macroscopique-Macroscopic Description
#1. Received fresh, labelled "LARYNX", consists of a total larynx and total thyroid with a segment of
trachea in 1 block. The specimen is consistent with a total laryngectomy and total thyroidectomy. The
specimen measures 4.9cm from the anterior commissure to the tip of the epiglottis and 4.8cm from
the anterior commissure to the tracheal margin. The right thyroid lobe measures 3.6 x 2.0 x 1.0cm.
The left thyroid lobe measures 3.4 x 2.0 x 1.0cm. The isthmus measures 2.0 x 1.0 x 0.4cm. The
specimen is inked and opened posteriorly. The specimen shows a slightly raised, ulcerated,
moderately-defined, solid, white, grey, firm, transglottic tumor. The specimen involves bilateral larynx
(more on the right side). The tumor grossly involves the thyroid cartilage. The tumor measures 3.4 x
2.8 x 1.9cm. The tumor is 3.5cm away from the tracheal margin. The tumor is 0.2cm from the right
epiglottic fold margin. Upon sectioning the thyroid, no nodule is grossly identified. The parenchyma is
grossly unremarkable. No lymph node is retrieved. The specimen is fixed in formalin and then
transferred for 48 hours in decalcification solution. The specimen is photographed. Representative
sections are submitted as follows and as shown on the picture:
A tracheal margin
B epiglottis interface vallecular margin
C right epiglottic fold
D left aryepiglottic fold
E-N right larynx starting at right paramedial anteriorly towards posterior
O-V left larynx starting at left paramedial anteriorly towards posterior
W right thyroid lobe
X left thyroid lobe.
#2. Received fresh, labelled "FROZEN SECTION LEFT PARATRACHEAL AREA PARATHYROID
GLAND VS NODE", consists of 3 tiny fragments of soft tissue measuring 0.2 x 0.2 x 0.1cm submitted
in toto for a frozen section. The frozen section is submitted for permanents in a cassette labelled "2A
FS".
#3. Received fresh, labelled "LEFT NECK 2A", consists of a fragment of fibrofatty tissue measuring 3.0
x 2.0 x 0.6cm. Upon sectioning the specimen, multiple lymph nodes are identified. The largest
measures 1.7cm in diameter. The specimen is submitted in toto as follows:
A multiple lymph nodes
B 3 lymph nodes
C 1 lymph node
D rest of the fibrofatty tissue.
#4. Received fresh, labelled "LEFT 2B", consists of a fragment of fibrofatty tissue measuring 2.0 x 1.8
x 0.7cm. Upon sectioning the specimen, 3 possible lymph nodes are identified. The largest measures
0.4cm in diameter. The specimen is submitted in toto as follows:
A 3 possible lymph nodes
B rest of the fibrofatty tissue.
#5. Received fresh, labelled "LEFT NECK 3 AND 4", consists of a fragment of fibrofatty tissue
measuring 5.0 x 3.0 x 0.5cm. Upon sectioning the specimen, multiple lymph nodes are identified. The
largest measures 0.9cm in diameter. The specimen is submitted in toto as follows:
A multiple lymph nodes
B 1 lymph node
C-E rest of the fat in toto.
#6. Received fresh, labelled "RIGHT NECK 2A", consists of 2 fragments of fibrofatty tissue measuring
in aggregate 3.0 x 2.0 x 1.0cm. Upon sectioning the specimen, 5 possible lymph nodes are identified.
The largest measures 1.9cm in diameter. The largest node is partially cystic. A sample of the largest
node is submitted for biobanking. The specimen is submitted in toto as follows:
A 4 possible lymph nodes
B 1 lymph node (partly submitted for biobanking)
C & D rest of the fibrofatty tissue in toto.
#7. Received fresh, labelled "RIGHT LEVEL 2B", consists of a fragment of fibrofatty tissue measuring
2.0 x 1.5 x 0.5cm. On sectioning the specimen, 1 possible lymph node is identified measuring 0.3cm
in diameter. The specimen is submitted in toto as follows:
A 1 lymph node
B rest of the fibrofatty tissue.
#8. Received fresh, labelled "RIGHT NECK 3", consists of 2 fragments of fibrofatty tissue measuring in
aggregate 4.0 x 3.0 x 0.4cm. Upon sectioning the specimen, multiple lymph nodes are identified. The
largest measures 0.8cm in diameter. The specimen is submitted in toto as follows:
A multiple lymph nodes
B 1 lymph node
C & D rest of the fibrofatty tissue.
#9. Received fresh, labelled "RIGHT NECK LEVEL 4", consists of a fragment of fibrofatty tissue
measuring 5.0 x 3.0 x 0.4cm. Upon sectioning the specimen, 5 possible lymph nodes are identified.
The largest measures 0.8cm in diameter. The specimen is submitted in toto as follows:
A multiple lymph nodes
B-D rest of the fibrofatty tissue.
#10. Labelled "RIGHT INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN", consists of a segment of possible blood vessel
measuring 1.4cm in length x 0.4cm in circumference. The specimen is serially cross sectioned and
submitted in toto in 1 cassette. EY/ha
