Rapport de Pathologie Final Pathology Report
 
Renseignements Cliniques-Clinical History         
88 year old woman with left alveolar cancer;  #1  anterior lateral;  #2 anterior medial;  #3 medial palate;
 #4 lateral cheek;  #5 posterior retromolar trigone;  #6 deep margin;  #7 left superior alveolar mass,
fresh & biobank;  #8 left neck dissection, level 1,2,3, fresh & biobank; #9 left node of star, fresh &
biobank       
 
Consultation Peroperatoire-Intraoperative Consultation              
 
FS1-FS6:  Anterior lateral & anterior medial & medial palate & lateral cheek & posterior retromolar
trigone & deep margin:
                 -  Margins, sites as stated: negative for neoplasia x 6        ([PERSON]) 
   
 
Diagnostic Anatomique-Anatomical Diagnosis         
#1-6:    As per frozen sections
Specimen #7:
Specimen site:   upper gingiva / alveolus
Procedure:    partial maxillectomy
Specimen laterality:   left
Tumor site:    upper gingiva / alveolus
Tumor size:    2.8 x 1.9 x 0.7 cm
Tumor thickness:   7 mm  
Histologic type:   squamous cell carcinoma
Histologic grade:   well differentiated
Microscopic tumor extension:  extensive tumor involvement around tooth socket, with superficial
bone invasion
Margins:    peripheral mucosal margins involved by invasive carcinoma (slide
    I, anterolateral) (see FS1)   
     deep margin involved by invasive carcinoma (slide I,
                                                               anterolateral)        
Lymph-vascular invasion:  not identified
Perineural invasion:    not identified

Specimen #8:
Specimen site:   left neck, level I, II, III
Procedure:      lymph node dissection
     number of lymph nodes examined: 31
     number of lymph nodes involved: 0
Submandibular gland:  no significant pathological alteration
Specimen #9:
Specimen site:   left node of Stahr
Procedure:      excision
     number of lymph nodes examined: 1
     number of lymph nodes involved: 0
Pathologic staging (pTNM):
TNM descriptors:   not applicable
Primary tumor (pT):    pT2: tumor more than 2 cm but not more than 4 cm in greatest
dimension.
Regional lymph nodes (pN):  pN0: no regional lymph node metastasis  
Distant metastasis (pM):  not applicable
    
 
Examen Macroscopique-Macroscopic Description     
#1  Received fresh. Labelled 'ANTERIOR LATERAL ALVEOLAR FROZEN SECTION #1', consists of
a fragment of soft tissue measuring 0.5 x 0.3 x 0.1 cm. Submitted in toto in 1 cassette labelled "1FS
FOR PERMANENT".
#2 Received fresh.  Labelled 'FROZEN SECTION #2 ANTERIOR MEDIAL ALVEOLAR", consists of a
fragment of soft tissue measuring 0.5 x 0.3 x 0.1 cm. Submitted in toto in 1 cassette labelled "2FS
FOR PERMANENT".
#3 Received fresh. Labelled 'FROZEN SECTION #3 MEDIAL PALATE", consists of a fragment of soft
tissue measuring 0.6 x 0.3 x 0.1 cm. Submitted in toto in 1 cassette labelled "3FS FOR
PERMANENT".
#4  Received fresh. Labelled 'FROZEN SECTION #4 LATERAL CHEEK', consists of a fragment of
soft tissue measuring 0.4 x 0.3 x 0.1 cm. Submitted in toto in 1 cassette labelled '4FS FOR
PERMANENT'.
#5  Received fresh.  Labelled 'FROZEN SECTION #5 POSTERIOR RETROMOLAR TRIGON',
consists of a fragment of soft tissue measuring 0.7 x 0.2  x 0.1 cm. Submitted in toto in 1 cassette
#6 Received fresh. Labelled 'FROZEN SECTION #6 DEEP MARGIN", consists of a fragment of soft
tissue measuring 0.3 x 0.2 x 0.1 cm. Submitted in toto in 1 cassette labelled "6FS FOR
PERMANENT".
#7  Received fresh. Labelled 'LEFT SUPERIOR ALVEOLAR MASS'. consists of an oriented ovoid
fragment of mucosa and submucosal tissue. The specimen includes 1 tooth socket. Specimen is partly
friable and fragile. Specimen is oriented by short suture anteriorly and long lateral. Specimen measures
3.8 x 3.4 x 0.8 cm.  The mucosal surface shows a slightly raised, endophytic, moderately defined,
white, grey, firm tumor involving the area around the tooth socket.  The tumor measures 2.8 x 1.9 x 0.7
cm. The tumor is focally grossly involving the margin laterally and deep around the tooth socket.  The
rest of the mucosal surface is mostly white. The margin is inked black and yellow ink is added along
the tooth socket towards medial aspect. Specimen is radially sectioned and submitted in toto as shown
on diagram and as follows:  A - posterolateral margin;  B-J  - rest of the specimen, epicentered around
the tooth socket, starting posterolaterally and clockwise.
#8  Received fresh. Labelled 'LEFT NECK DISSECTION LEVEL1,2,3', consists of a salivary gland
measuring 3.7 x 2.7 x 1.5 cm and of multiple fragments of fibrofatty tissue measuring in aggregate 5 x
3 x 0.8 cm.  On sectioning the gland, it is grossly unremarkable. On sectioning the rest of the fibrofatty
tissue, multiple well-circumscribed, beige, grey rubbery lymph nodes are identified, the largest
measuring 1.3 cm in diameter.  Rep. section submitted:  A - rep. section from salivary gland;  B&C -
multiple lymph nodes;  D - one bisected lymph node; E-G - the rest of the fibrofatty tissue. 
#9  Labelled 'LEFT NODE OF STAHR",  consists of a well-circumscribed, yellowish, grey, rubbery
lymph node measuring 1 cm in diameter. The node is bisected and submitted in toto in 1 cassette.  
No tissue submitted for biobank from this case.              EY/sc 
   
     